---
title: Device.Network.WLAN
Description: 'Requirements.'
ms.assetid: 
MSHAttr: 
author: beneluxboy
ms.author: windows-hardware-design-content
ms.date: 05/02/2017
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: windows-hardware
ms.technology: windows-oem
---

# Device.Network.WLAN

 - [Device.Network.WLAN](#device.network.wlan)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportConnectionToAP](#device.network.wlan.supportconnectiontoap)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWakeFromLowPower](#device.network.wlan.supportwakefromlowpower)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportMACAddressRandomization](#device.network.wlan.supportmacaddressrandomization)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportHotspot2Dot0](#device.network.wlan.supporthotspot2dot0)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportDot11W](#device.network.wlan.supportdot11w)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportFIPS](#device.network.wlan.supportfips)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWiFiDirect](#device.network.wlan.supportwifidirect)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWiFiDirectServices](#device.network.wlan.supportwifidirectservices)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWirelessDocking](#device.network.wlan.supportwirelessdocking)
 - [Device.Network.WLAN.SupportHostedNetwork](#device.network.wlan.supporthostednetwork)

<a name="device.network.wlan"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN

*Windows 10 WLAN drivers can implement either of the following driver models:*

 - WDI Driver Model introduced in Windows 10 (supports new Windows 10 features)

*OR*

 - Native Wi-Fi Driver Model (does not support new Windows 10 features)

<a name="device.network.wlan.supportconnectiontoap"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportConnectionToAP

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportConnectionToAP.ConnectionToAP (Mandatory)

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>

**Description**

Devices must report supported band information for each respective category. In addition, device must comply with the following requirements.

**Minimize CPU Utilization **

The Wi-Fi device should conform to the following requirements for minimizing CPU utilization.

-   While in EXTSTA mode and in D0 state, WLAN devices must not interrupt OS more than 1 time per data packet (non D0 coalesced packets only. If WLAN device supports D0 packet coalescing, WLAN device should comply with the D0 packet coalescing spec for D0 coalesced packets). Note that if WLAN device is using SDIO bus interface, interrupts generated by SDIO host controller per data packet are exempted from this requirement.  Non data packet-related interrupts, if needed, must not exceed an average of 3 interrupts per second when measured over a 2 minute period.  Also, as a best practice, in active state (when there is data traffic), the non-data packet related interrupts should be issued within 1 millisecond of a valid packet-related interrupt.

-   In D0 state, all (if any) miniport specific periodic maintenance timers must be specified using an available "timer coalescing" API, with a minimum 2 second period and 1 second tolerance.  This requirement will be tested in a long running connected state when there is no change in connectivity.  All such timers must be cancelled in D3 state.  Note that this requirement doesn't apply to timers defined in IEEE 802.11 specification e.g., connection timers such as association timers, roaming timers etc.  

-   An individual DPC (Deferred Procedural Call) duration MUST not exceed 2 milliseconds. Accumulated DPC duration should be less than 4 milliseconds over any 10 millisecond window.

In low power states, if the device is not Wake on Wireless capable, WLAN device must not interrupt the CPU. If the device is Wake on Wireless capable, WLAN device must not interrupt the CPU except on wake triggers indicated by NDIS for Wake on Wireless LAN. All interrupts not related to wake triggers must be cancelled.

**Support Multiple Device Instances **

Plug and Play can support multiple instances of a device. Multiple instances of the device can exist and function in the same system at the same instance. For network communications devices, the Plug and Play IDs and resource support MUST be sufficient to allow multiple network communications devices to be added automatically to the system. This requirement implies that all device resources MUST be set and read through the standard interfaces provided by the bus on which the device resides. For PCI devices, this interface is the PCI configuration space. Also, device parameter settings MUST be stored in the registry.

**Comply with following specifications: NDIS 6.50, WDF/KMDF **

Network device drivers must make only Network Driver Interface Specification (NDIS) 6.50 or Windows Driver Foundation (WDF) calls. Any calls to kernel mode components are not allowed.

**Association Timing Requirement**

On WPA2-PSK networks, WLAN devices must finish the association within **300ms**.  It is measured as the time between the events when OS issues an OID "OID\_WDI\_TASK\_CONNECT" and miniport sends an "NDIS\_STATUS\_WDI\_INDICATION\_ASSOCIATION\_RESULT" indication to the OS. 

**Roam Timing Requirement**

For devices that *do not* support Fast Roaming (this means that the STA does not support sending/receiving action frames nor utilitizes 802.11r Fast BSS Transitions. In addition, AP-side 802.11k Neighbor Reports and 802.11r is not enabled in the AP): Roaming action must complete within **100ms**. This time is measured starting when the OS issues the OID\_WDI\_TASK\_CONNECT or OID\_WDI\_TASK\_ROAM command and ends when the NDIS\_STATUS\_WDI\_INDICATION\_ASSOCIATION\_RESULT notification is received by the OS with the AssociationStatus set to WDI\_ASSOC\_STATUS\_SUCCESS .

For devices that *do* support Fast Roaming (this means that the STA does support sending/receiving action frames and utilizes 802.11r Fast BSS Transitions. In addition, AP-side 802.11k Neighbor Reports and 802.11r is enabled in the AP): Roaming action must complete within **50ms**. This time is measured starting when the OS issues the OID\_WDI\_TASK\_CONNECT or OID\_WDI\_TASK\_ROAM command and ends when the NDIS\_STATUS\_WDI\_INDICATION\_ASSOCIATION\_RESULT notification is received by the OS with the AssociationStatus set to WDI\_ASSOC\_STATUS\_SUCCESS.

**Device Initialization Timing Requirement**

WLAN devices must meet the following requirement during boot time, resume from hibernate, and device enable/disable actions.

Device must complete the OpenAdapterHandler routine within 1 second. Time is measured between when NDIS calls OpenAdapterHandler function as part of a system PnP operation and OpenAdapterCompleteHandler(NDIS\_STATUS\_SUCCESS) is returned. In OpenAdapterHandler, the driver must have completed all its device initialization.

**Radio State Change Timing Requirement**

WLAN devices must be able to change the state of the radio within 2 sec. This duration will be measured between the request is sent through OID\_WDI\_TASK\_SET\_RADIO\_STATE and when the miniport indicates NDIS\_STATUS\_WDI\_INDICATION\_RADIO\_STATUS back.

**Scan Preferred Channel Sets **

Preferred channels set: When supported and permitted by the regulatory domain, the miniport driver must prefer the following channels when scanning for available networks or roaming to find a candidate access point:

-   2.4 Ghz channels: 1 to 14

-   5GHz U-NII Low channels: 36, 40, 44, 48

-   5GHz U-NII Mid channels: 52, 56, 60,64

-   5GHz U-NII Worldwide channels: 100, 104, 108, 112, 116, 120, 124, 128, 132, 136, 140

-   5GHz U-NII Upper channels: 149, 153, 157, 161,165

The driver must report support for these and any other channels it supports through the ChannelList provided in the WDI\_BAND\_INFO of OID\_WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES.

**Scan Action Requirement**

WLAN device must start scanning when it receives a "OID\_WDI\_TASK\_SCAN " from OS and reply back with an indication " NDIS\_STATUS\_WDI\_INDICATION\_SCAN\_COMPLETE " to the OS as soon as it completes the scan. In case of active scanning, miniport is expected to send the active wildcard probes to the network channels to meet the scanning goals. In case of passive scanning, miniport is not expected to send any probes to the network channels.

This priority order should be followed for scanning:

1.  NLO hint channels

2.  Preferred channels

3.  Any remaining channels

The timings listed below will be measured from the time stamp when the device receives OID "OID\_WDI\_TASK\_SCAN" from OS to the time stamp when the respective indication is provided to the OS by the miniport.

-   If the Network list offload hints are available, the device should leverage the network list offload hints to optimize scanning behavior and return "NDIS\_STATUS\_WDI\_INDICATION\_NLO\_DISCOVERY" indication when a matching profile is found within the following timings:

	<!-- -->

	-   Scanning a network where active scanning is allowed - 20ms/channel

	-   Scanning a network where only passive scanning is allowed - 120ms/channel

	<!-- -->

-   If there is no match found using Network List Offload hints, WLAN device should next scan the preferred channels in the list above.  For scanning the channels in the preferred channel list, WLAN device should not take more than 3.5 seconds (time includes scanning for both active and passive channels). The newly created list of surrounding BSS entries should be returned on the next BSS list query from the OS.

-   If there is no match found in above 2 cases, WLAN device should next scan any remaining channels. WLAN device should not take more than 4 sec for the entire scan operation. 

**Scanning Behavior when Resuming from Sleep/Screen Off **

When resuming from sleep/screen off, the WLAN device is expected to reconnect to the same AP that it was connected to before going to sleep, if it is available. WLAN devices must meet the following timings for detecting its presence:

-   Reconnecting to a channel were active scanning is allowed - 50ms

-   Reconnecting to a channel were only Passive scanning is allowed - 120ms

If the last connected network is not found, WLAN device must scan for networks in the priority order listed below.

-   NLO hint channels

-   Preferred channels

-   Any remaining channels

WLAN device must follow the timing constraints as defined above in the general scanning section.  The timings will be measured from the time stamp when the device reports as being in D0 state (OID\_WDI\_SET\_POWER\_STATE completing) to the time stamp when the respective indication is provided to the OS by the miniport.

**Scan Non-Broadcast Networks**

WLAN device must be able to scan for and report the presence of non-broadcast (i.e., Hidden) networks.

**Support Coordinated Scanning (If-Implemented) (WDI drivers only)**

VOIP Operations needs to be able to prioritize network resources such that data quality is maintained while still allowing for mobility. As such in the wireless stack, we have introduced the concept of Media Streaming Mode. This feature specifically calls out the key scanning implications / behavior when in Media Streaming Mode. Please refer to the WDI spec for more information.

**Support Raw Action Frames (If-Implemented) (WDI drivers only)**

Raw Action Frames are required for transmitting ANQP Query/Response frames, 802.11k Neighbor Report/Request Frames,and 802.11v BSS Transition Management Report/Request Frames. The device must report that it supports Raw Action Frames in WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES. Please refer to the WDI Spec for implementation details. 802.11k Neighbor Reports and 802.11vBSS Transition Management Frames will be used to improve roaming performance in the operating system. By utilizing 802.11k Neighbor Reportsand 802.11v BSS Transition Management Frames, the OS has an improved understanding of its surroundings and allows for improved roaming performance, thus leading to less glitches for the end user when on a voice/video call.

**Support 802.11r Fast BSS Transition (If-Implemented) (WDI drivers only)**

802.11r Fast BSS Transitions allow for faster key exchange speeds, leading to improved roaming performance. The driver must support a new association type for Fast BSS Associations and be able to send the appropriate indications to the OS during the association/key exchange process. Please refer to the WDI spec from more information.

**Low Latency Performance **

WLAN devices should be able to support low latency applications/scenarios such as Wi-Fi Display/Lync/Skype. In order to do so, WLAN device must support the following:

-   WMM should be supported on all ports including virtualized ports – ExtSTA, Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (Group Owner), and Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (Client).

-   WMM should be supported on Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (Group Owner) and Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (Client) even if the AP connected via ExSTA port does not support WMM.

-   The NIC should be capable of supporting prioritization across two ports (ExtSTA & one Wi-Fi Direct Role Port) at the same time.

-   Devices should be able to prioritize traffic based on 802.11e Access Category (AC) tagging.

-   When the NIC is virtualized with Concurrency in single channel, it should be able to prioritize transmit traffic across different virtual ports based on WMM & Media Streaming indication.

-   When the NIC is virtualized with Concurrency across multiple channels, it should be able to prioritize transmit traffic across different virtual ports based on WMM and Media Streaming Indication and receiving traffic is serviced across the concurrent channels.

When WMM prioritization is used with AC\_VI or AC\_VO (Voice/Video), WLAN device must meet the following latency and packet loss requirements.

<html>
    <table>
        <thead>
            <tr class="header">
                <th></th>
                <th>ExSTA</th>
                <th>Wi-Fi Direct Role Port</th>
                <th>Max. One Way Latency at UDP for AC_VI/AC_VO Traffic</th>
                <th>Packet Loss for AC_VI/AC_VO Traffic</th>
            </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr class="odd">
                <td>ExSTA Only</td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td>NA</td>
                <td>30ms</td>
                <td>0.5%, not more that 3 consequetive packets</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="even">
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="odd">
                <td>ExSTA + Wi-Fi Direct in Single Channel Concurrency</td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td></td>
                <td>30ms</td>
                <td>0.5%, not more that 3 consequetive packets</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="even">
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td>30ms</td>
                <td>0.5%, not more that 3 consequetive packets</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="odd">
                <td></td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td>30ms</td>
                <td>0.5%, not more that 3 consequetive packets</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="even">
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="odd">
                <td>ExSTA + Wi-Fi Direct in Multi Channel Concurrency</td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td></td>
                <td>40ms</td>
                <td>0.5%, not more that 3 consequetive packets</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="even">
                <td></td>
                <td></td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td>40ms</td>
                <td>0.5%, not more that 3 consequetive packets</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="odd">
                <td></td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td>AC_VI/AC_VO</td>
                <td>50ms</td>
                <td>0.5%, not more that 3 consequetive packets</td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>
</html>

**Minimum Throughput Performance **

**Throughput With Concurrent Operation:** The 802.11 devices must not have more than 20% aggregate throughput degradation when data flow is divided among 3 ports (with and without Multi-Channel/Band operation) namely – ExtSTA, Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (GO) and Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (Client) compared with aggregate throughput when only one Wi-Fi port is connected.

**Throughput: **

This requirement for throughput is applicable to all types of ports (ExtSTA, Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (GO) and Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (Client)) individually.

Device must be capable of supporting the following throughput numbers over a TCP connection for a particular combination of Phy type, number of streams and channel width. Throughput is measured at the application layer using NTTTCP perf measurement tool built into Windows hardware certification kit.

-   If WLAN device supports 802.11ac Phy Type (Note that 802.11ac Phy Type support is optional for WLAN devices. 802.11ac devices will also be tested for 802.11n operations)

    -   802.11ac combinations will be tested on 5 Ghz band only.

    -   Both transmit and receive side throughput will be tested. Device is expected to meet same throughput number (listed below) for a particular combination on both transmission and reception side.

Max supported spatial stream by the NIC will be tested. E.g., if the NIC supports 3 spatial streams, combinations with spatial stream 3 will be tested.

<html>
    <table>
        <thead>
            <tr class="header">
                <th><em>Channel Width</em></th>
                <th colspan="2"><em>20 Mhz</em></th>
                <th colspan="2"><em>40 Mhz</em></th>
                <th colspan="2"><em>80 Mhz</em></th>
            </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr class="odd">
                <th># of Spatial Streams </th>
                <td>Max Phy rate (100%)</td>
                <td>Throughput expected by Windows Certification</td>
                <td>Max Phy rate (100%)</td>
				<td>Throughput expected by Windows Certification</td>
				<td>Max Phy rate (100%)</td>
				<td>Throughput expected by Windows Certification</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="even">
                <th>1 Stream</th>
                <td>86</td>
                <td>18</td>
                <td>200</td>
                <td>42</td>
                <td>433</td>
                <td>90</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="odd">
                <th>2 Stream</th>
                <td>173</td>
                <td>38</td>
                <td>400</td>
                <td>88</td>
                <td>866</td>
                <td>191</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="even">
                <th>3 Stream or higher\*</th>
                <td>258</td>
                <td>47</td>
                <td>600</td>
                <td>110</td>
                <td>1300</td>
                <td>237</td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>
    <p><em>\* All speeds are in Mbps.</em></p>
    <p><em>\* Combinations not required for SDIO and USB 2.0 Bus Type devices. These devices with support for more than 2 streams must be able to attain values listed for 2 streams. Note that USB 3.0 devices are not excluded.</em></p>
    <ul>
        <li>
            <p>802.11n WLAN devices</p>
            <ul>
                <li><p>802.11n combinations will be tested over both 2.4 Ghz and 5 Ghz bands if both bands are supported on the device.</p></li>
                <li><p>Both transmit and receive side throughput will be tested. Device is expected to meet same throughput number (listed below) for a particular combination on both transmission and reception side.</p></li>
                <li><p>Max supported spatial streams by the NIC will be tested. E.g., if the NIC supports 3 spatial streams, combinations with spatial streams 3 will be tested.</p></li>
            </ul>
        </li>
    </ul>
    <table>
        <thead>
            <tr class="header">
                <th>Channel Width</th>
                <th colspan="2">20 Mhz</th>
                <th colspan="2">40 Mhz</th>
            </tr>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
            <tr class="odd">
                <th># of Spatial Streams</th>
                <td>Max Phy rate (100%)</td>
                <td>Throughput expected by Windows Certification</td>
				<td>Max Phy rate (100%)</td>
				<td>Throughput expected by Windows Certification</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="even">
                <th>1 Stream</th>
                <td>72</td>
                <td>15</td>
                <td>150</td>
                <td>31</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="odd">
                <th>2 Stream</th>
                <td>144</td>
                <td>32</td>
                <td>300</td>
                <td>66</td>
            </tr>
            <tr class="even">
                <th>3 Stream or higher\*</th>
                <td>216</td>
                <td>40</td>
                <td>450</td>
                <td>82</td>
            </tr>
        </tbody>
    </table>
    <p><em>\* All speeds are in Mbps. </em></p>
    <p><em>\* Combinations not required for SDIO Bus Type devices. SDIO devices with support for more than 2 streams must be able to attain values listed for 2 streams.</em></p>
</html>

**Wi-Fi Power-Save Mode **

The Wi-Fi driver is required to perform detection and negotiation of proper Wi-Fi Power Save Mode (PSM) between the device and the Wi-Fi Access Point and report it as AutoPowerSaveMode in the WDI\_STATION\_ATTRIBUTES.  If the driver reports that it supports PSM detection, WLAN service will delegate the PSM decision to the driver by default.

If the driver supports the AUTO-PSM capability the Wi-Fi service will no longer set the broadcast management filter to receive beacons from the miniport and will instead set an OID to turn on Auto-PSM in the driver.  When in Auto-PSM, the driver should always negotiate PSM mode when it detects that the AP supports it and manage the use of PSM between the device and the Wi-Fi Access Point to ensure optimal connectivity while using the least amount of power.

**Connection Loss **

All WLAN devices must detect and indicate the loss of the connected AP (no beacons) within 20 beacon intervals.

**Permit Information Elements to be added to Association Frames (Request/Response)**

All 802.11 devices must permit Information Elements to be added to association frames, both requests and responses. This includes adding currently specified Information Elements, such as Wi-Fi Protected Setup as well as other vendor extended Information Elements.

**Support Filtering for 32 Multicast Addresses**

WLAN hardware must support at least 32 multicast addresses on each port. Both STA and Wi-Fi-Direct ports need to support filtering 32 multicast addresses separately.

**Support Separate Beacon and Probe Information Elements **

All 802.11 devices must separately indicate the Wi-Fi Protected Setup IEs that are received in Beacon frames and probe-response frames. If the device has received both a beacon frame and a probe-response frame from a particular BSSID, then it must provide two instances of the IE, where one instance is the most recently received WPS IE from the Beacon and one instance is the most recently received WPS IE from the probe response.

**Transmit Packets on Any Boundary**

Buffer alignment refers to whether a buffer begins on an odd-byte, word, double-word, or other boundary. Devices must be able to transmit packets with any of the packets fragments beginning on an odd-byte boundary. For performance reasons, packets must be received into contiguous buffers on a double-word boundary.

**TCP Checksum Offload (If-Implemented) (WDI drivers only)**

TCP/IP protocol is designed to provide a reliable data transfer mechanism. This calls for the TCP stack to implement various protection mechanisms to detect and fix such errors. One such mechanism is the concept of using "checksums" to ensure reliability. In Windows we do the checksum computations in the OS, request retries of packets and manage the packets within the HOST. The WLAN Device must report that it supports offloads and be able to offload in the OS-prescribed manner. Device must be able to detect if the offload is causing performance issues and be able to disable the offload. Offloads should work across Station Connectivity and Wi-Fi Direct usage scenarios.

**Connectivity Types**

All WLAN devices must be able to connect using the following Wi-Fi connection types. All WLAN devices declare support for these through WDI\_ALGO\_PAIRS reported in OID\_WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES

Authentication and cipher support required in infrastructure mode:

| Authnetication  | Cipher     |
|-----------------|------------|
| Open            | None       |
| Open            | WEP-40bit  |
| Open            | WEP-104bit |
| Open            | WEP        |
| WPA-Enterprise  | TKIP       |
| WPA-Enterprise  | CCMP       |
| WPA-Personal    | TKIP       |
| WPA-Personal    | CCMP       |
| WPA2-Enterprise | TKIP       |
| WPA2-Enterprise | CCMP       |
| WPA2-Personal   | TKIP       |
| WPA2-Personal   | CCMP       |

\[Native Wi-Fi Drivers Only\] (If-Implemented) Authentication and cipher support required in ad-hoc (IBSS) mode:

| Authnetication | Cipher     |
|----------------|------------|
| Open           | None       |
| Open           | WEP-40bit  |
| Open           | WEP-104bit |
| Open           | WEP        |
| WPA2-Personal  | CCMP       |

**Support Hibernate and Resume **

If the device supports Hibernate and Resume, the device should not fall off the bus as part of its initial (boot time) firmware download process or while going to hibernate state.

**Support Radio Management (Radio On/Off)**

Device must support Radio Management requests from the OS via the WDI\_TASK\_SET\_RADIO\_STATE command. Please refer to the WDI spec for more information.

**Support Wi-Fi Protected Setup (WPS)**

Devices must support Wi-Fi Protected Setup. OS will issue WDI\_SET\_P2P\_WPS\_ENABLED command to indicate to the LE when WPS is set. Please refer to the WDI Spec for more information.

**Support Packet Filters (If-Implemented)**

Packet Filters allow the OS to filter different types of packets when upon receipt. The OS uses the WDI\_TLV\_PACKET\_FILTER\_PARAMETERS TLV to indicate which type of packet to filter for. Please refer to the WDI spec for more information.

**Obtain WFA Certifications (if-Implemented)**

It is strongly recommended that devices obtain the following WFA Certifications:

-   802.11n
-   WMM
-   WPA2Protected Management Frames (PMF)

**Implement 802.11a (If-Implemented)**

Device must report 802.11a PHY type 4 (WDI\_PHY\_TYPE\_OFDM) in the WDI\_PHY\_INFO structures returned by OID\_WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES.

**Implement 802.11b (Mandatory)**

Device must report 802.11b PHY type 2 (WDI\_PHY\_TYPE\_HRDSS) in the WDI\_PHY\_INFO structures returned by OID\_WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES.

**Implement 802.11g (If-Implemented)**

Device must report 802.11g PHY type 5 (WDI\_PHY\_TYPE\_ERP) in the WDI\_PHY\_INFO structures returned by OID\_WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES.

**Implement 802.11n (If-Implemented)**

Recommended for optimal WLAN performance.

Device must report 802.11n PHY type 7 (WDI\_PHY\_TYPE\_HT) in the WDI\_PHY\_INFO structures returned by OID\_WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES.

**Implement 802.11ac (If-Implemented)**

Device must report 802.11ac PHY type 8 (WDI\_PHY\_TYPE\_VHT) in the WDI\_PHY\_INFO structures returned by OID\_WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES.

**Support Hang Detection and Recovery (If-Implemented) (WDI drivers only)**

Wi-Fi device firmware has been known to hang and / or get in a stuck state. Once that happens, the Lower Edge driver would either crash causing a 9F (Blue Screen) or the Wi-Fi subsystem gets into a state which requires a system reboot for the device to be functional again. In either case, the user is faced with a negative experience in their connectivity and their general system usage is disrupted. As an integral part of WDI, we have designed a mechanism to detect when the firmware gets into these states and recover the device seamlessly. This will ensure that user will see a minimal disruption in service by ensuring that the Wi-Fi device stack recovers and resumes connectivity to the network without the system needing a reboot. Devices must report support for Hang Detection and Recovery in WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES. Please refer to the WDI Spec for implementation details.

Requirement – Hardware / Firmware

System ACPI firmware: The System will provide the ACPI methods to PDLR the device either at a bus or at the device level.

System hardware: The system will allow for a PDLR (full device level reset). All systems must support PDLR.

System: The System will indicate support for PDLR support.

Device: The Lower Edge driver will be able to gather dumps with 25 ms and 250 Kb size

System: The system must complete the reset within 10 seconds.

<a name="device.network.wlan.supportwakefromlowpower"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWakeFromLowPower

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWakeFromLowPower.WakeFromLowPower (If-Implemented)

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>

Implement Wake on WLAN

**Description: **

WLAN devices that implement WoWLAN (Wake on Wireless LAN) must support all the features related to WoWLAN capability. Implementation of subset of below features will not be considered for certification. WLAN devices should do the following:

-   Must indicate the specific Wake on Wireless LAN (WoWLAN) capability that is supported.

-   Must support at least 22 WoWLAN bitmap wake-up patterns of 128 byte each.

-   Must be able to perform GTK (WPA/WPA2) and IGTK refresh (WPA2) while in the Dx state.

-   Must support wake on GTK and IGTK handshake error.

-   Must support wake when 802.1x EAP-Request/Identity Packet is received.

-   Must support wake when four way handshake requests is received.

-   Must support wake on association lost with current AP.

-   Must support wake when a network matches NLO (Network list offload) hints.

-   Must support wake packet indication. NIC should cache the packet causing the wake on hardware and pass it up when the OS is ready for receive.

-   Must support ARP and NS offloads to ensure link local network discovery. WLAN device should be able to respond to ARP and NS requests without interrupting the CPU when the device is in low power (D3) state. Devices must support at least 1 ARP offload and at least 2 NS offloads (each NS offload with up to 2 target IPv6 addresses).

Network List Offload

**Description: **

WLAN devices should support 10 offloaded BSSID profiles. Wi-Fi profiles that are marked auto-connect will be offloaded by the OS to the device/driver.  The device should use the network list offload as a hint to optimize scanning behavior and return "NDIS\_STATUS\_WDI\_INDICATION\_NLO\_DISCOVERY " indication when a matching profile is found.

<a name="device.network.wlan.supportmacaddressrandomization"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportMACAddressRandomization

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportMACAddressRandomization.MACAddressRandomization (If-Implemented) **(WDI drivers only)**

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>

**Description**

The Wi-Fi MAC address is currently used to track users as they move through public spaces, from hot-spot to hot-spot, and even within a department store or a mall. By randomizing the MAC address, Windows Phones users cannot be tracked without their consent. To support this feature, the device must report to the operating system that it supports MAC Address Randomization via WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES. Please refer to the WDI spec for feature implementation details.

<a name="device.network.wlan.supporthotspot2dot0"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportHotspot2Dot0

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportHotspot2Dot0.Hotspot2Dot0 (If Implemented) **(WDI drivers only)**

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>

**Description**

Device must report that it supports ActionFrameSupport in WDI\_TLV\_INTERFACE\_CAPABILITIES and optinally report that it supports ConnectToSSIDsBelongingToHESSID in WDI\_STATION\_ATTRIBUTES. Please refer to the WDI Spec for implementation details.

<a name="device.network.wlan.supportdot11w"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportDot11W 

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportDot11W.Dot11W (If-Implemented)

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>

**Description**

Device must report support for 802.11w Protected Management Frames in WDI\_STATION\_ATTRIBUTES. IEEE 802.11w is an addition to IEEE 802.11 suite of standards to enhance the security of management frames. Please refer to the WDI Spec for implementation details.

<a name="device.network.wlan.supportfips"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportFIPS

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportFIPS.FIPS (If-Implemented)

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>

**Description**

Report support for FIPS in WDI\_STATION\_ATTRIBUTES. Please refer to the WDI Spec for implementation details. The FIPS (Federal Information Processing Standards) is a United States government requirement for use within communication and computer systems.

Your WLAN device must support one of the two following solutions for FIPS support:

1.  Hardware based solution: you may choose to support FIPS directly through your hardware device. You can do so by declaring DOT11\_EXTSTA\_ATTRIBUTES\_SAFEMODE\_CERTIFIED(for NWIFI drivers) and WDI\_STATION\_ATTRIBUTES – Host FIPS Mode Implemented (for WDI Drivers)in your driver. If you declare hardware based support for FIPS you the device manufacturer are responsible for ensuring compliance with the FIPS standard. Windows cannot and will not test adherence to the FIPS standard in this mode.

2.  Software based solution: Windows implements a software based solution that conforms to the FIPS standard. You can do so by declaring DOT11\_EXTSTA\_ATTRIBUTES\_SAFEMODE\_OID\_SUPPORTED, and implementing OID\_DOT11\_SAFE\_MODE\_ENABLED or OID\_DOT11\_SAFE\_MODE\_HT\_ENABLED in your driver.

<a name="device.network.wlan.supportwifidirect"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWiFiDirect

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWiFiDirect.WiFiDirect (If-Implemented)

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>

#### Support Wi-Fi Direct Base Functionality

**Description**

If implemented, support for Wi-Fi Direct by the Wi-Fi Driver to enable Miracast, Public APIs for Wi-Fi Direct to allow pairing to & from the PC, Accepting and Connecting to other Wi-Fi Direct Device for the GO & the Client Role. This includes support for concurrent operation over Wi-Fi Direct & Station.

**Details**  

Device must report the relevant capabilities in the WIFI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES per the WDI Specification

-   WIFI\_VIRTUALIZATION\_ATTRIBUTES
-   WIFI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES
-   WIFI\_BAND\_INFO
-   WIFI\_PHY\_INFO

If this requirements is supported, then the device must be capable of performing the following action as defined in the WDI Spec

-   Scan for Wi-Fi Direct Devices & GO

-   Be Discoverable as a Wi-Fi Direct Device & GO

-   Pair with Wi-Fi Direct Devices & GO

-   Accept Incoming Pairing from Wi-Fi Direct Devices & GO

-   Connect to a Wi-Fi Direct Client or GO

-   Accept Incoming Connections from a Wi-Fi Direct Client or a GO

-   Support for Extensible IEs in During Pairing & (Re) Association

-   Support for the providing the Link Quality & Throughput rates for the Wi-Fi Direct Connection irrespective of Role

-   Support for indication of Operating Channel whether in GO or Client Role via the WIFI\_INDICATION\_LINK\_STATE\_CHANGE

#### Support Background Discovery

**Description**

If implemented, support for background discovery of Wi-Fi Direct Devices, this allows for applications that use the Wi-Fi Direct API to offload the discovery to enable a richer set of scenarios by allowing application to get a notification when a device is found vs. having to scan for them periodically. Support for this feature also enables better resource utilization.  

**Details**  

Device must report the relevant capabilities in the WIFI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES per the WDI Specification

-   WIFI\_VIRTUALIZATION\_ATTRIBUTES
-   WIFI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES 

If the device supports this requirement, it must be able to scan for Wi-Fi Direct Devices & GO on all supports periodically in D0 state.

#### Support eCSA

**Description**

If implemented, support for enhanced Channel Switch Annoucement (eCSA) as per the 802.11 specification, in the Wi-Fi Direct Client and in the Wi-Fi Direct GO. This will enable better performance by NIC moving the GO or responding to eCSA requests from the GO that is connected to.


**Details **

Device must report the relevant capabilities in the WIFI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES per the WDI Specification

-   WIFI\_INTERFACE\_ATTRIBUTES 


If this requirements is supported then all Wi-Fi Direct Ports must support eCSA. If the Device is in GO Mode then it must be able to detect if the remote device (that it is connected to) supports eCSA and use eCSA to move to single channel configuration . If the Device is in client mode, then respond to eCSA requests from the remote device (that it is connected to). The Device must report change of Operating Channel for both Client & GO via the WIFI\_INDICATION\_P2P\_GROUP\_OPERATING\_CHANNEL Indication.

OS will not control the eCSA behavior of the Device, this is device specific implementation.

#### Support Concurrency

**Description**

If implemented, support for operation of scenarios such as Miracast or Wi-Fi Direct & Wi-Fi Direct Services along with connectivity to the Internet. Without support for this, the device will only be able to connect to one end-point - Example cannot connect to Miracast while also being connected to the Internet.


**Details**

Device must report the relevant capabilities in the WIFI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES per the WDI Specification

-   WIFI\_VIRTUALIZATION\_ATTRIBUTES
-   WIFI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES


If this requirements is supported, then Device must be capable of support at least 2 Wi-Fi Direct role ports concurrently in the following configuration in addition to the Wi-Fi Direct Device Port :

-   A Group Owner (GO) on one Wi-Fi Direct Port and Client on the other Wi-Fi Direct port(s) Concurrently

-   A Client on each Wi-Fi Direct Port Concurrently

-   Device can support concurrently with Infrastructure connectivity on different channels across different bands (2.4/5 GHz) with a 2 concurrent channels.


Sample of Expected Supported Matrix for 2 Channel & 2 Port Concurrency

-   If the WLAN Device Supports 802.11ac then :

| &nbsp;       | **ExTSTA Port** |     &nbsp;    |     &nbsp;     | **Wi-Fi Direct Role Port 1** |     &nbsp;    |    &nbsp;      | **Wi-Fi Direct Role Port 2** |    &nbsp;     |    &nbsp;      |
|-------------|-----------------|---------|----------|------------------------------|---------|----------|------------------------------|---------|----------|
| **Case \#** | 802.11n         | 802.11n | 802.11ac | 802.11n                      | 802.11n | 802.11ac | 802.11n                      | 802.11n | 802.11ac |
| ** **       | 2.4 Ghz         | 5 Ghz   | 5 GHz    | 2.4 Ghz                      | 5 Ghz   | 5 GHz    | 2.4 Ghz                      | 5 Ghz   | 5 GHz    |
| **1**       | STA             | x       | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **2**       | STA             | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **4**       | STA             | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **6**       | STA             | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   | x                            | x       | x        |
| **7**       | STA             | x       | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        |
| **8**       | STA             | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        |
| **9**       | STA             | x       | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **10**      | STA             | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **11**      | STA             | x       | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **12**      | STA             | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **14**      | STA             | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **16**      | STA             | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **18**      | STA             | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **19**      | x               | STA     | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **20**      | x               | STA     | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **21**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | GO      | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **22**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **23**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | x       | GO       | x                            | x       | x        |
| **24**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | x       | Client   | x                            | x       | x        |
| **25**      | x               | STA     | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        |
| **26**      | x               | STA     | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        |
| **27**      | x               | STA     | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **28**      | x               | STA     | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **29**      | x               | STA     | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **30**      | x               | STA     | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **31**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | GO      | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **32**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **33**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | GO      | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **34**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **35**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | x       | GO       | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **36**      | x               | STA     | x        | x                            | x       | Client   | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **37**      | x               | x       | STA      | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **38**      | x               | x       | STA      | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **39**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | GO      | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **40**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | x       | x        |
| **41**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | x       | GO       | x                            | x       | x        |
| **42**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | x       | Client   | x                            | x       | x        |
| **43**      | x               | x       | STA      | GO                           | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        |
| **44**      | x               | x       | STA      | Client                       | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        |
| **45**      | x               | x       | STA      | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **46**      | x               | x       | STA      | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **47**      | x               | x       | STA      | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **48**      | x               | x       | STA      | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **49**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | GO      | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **50**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **51**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | GO      | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **52**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **53**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | x       | GO       | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **54**      | x               | x       | STA      | x                            | x       | Client   | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **55**      | x               | x       | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        |
| **56**      | x               | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        |
| **57**      | x               | x       | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **58**      | x               | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **59**      | x               | x       | x        | GO                           | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **60**      | x               | x       | x        | Client                       | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **62**      | x               | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | Client  | x        |
| **63**      | x               | x       | x        | x                            | GO      | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **64**      | x               | x       | x        | x                            | Client  | x        | x                            | x       | Client   |
| **66**      | x               | x       | x        | x                            | x       | Client   | x                            | x       | Client   |


-   If WLAN device does not support 802.11ac :

| **Case \#** | **Infra Port** |   &nbsp;    | **WFD Port 1** |    &nbsp;    | **WFD Port 2** |   &nbsp;     |
|-------------|----------------|-------|----------------|--------|----------------|--------|
| ** **       | 2.4 Ghz        | 5 Ghz | 2.4 Ghz        | 5 Ghz  | 2.4 Ghz        | 5 Ghz  |
| **1**       | STA            | x     | GO             | x      | x              | X      |
| **2**       | STA            | x     | Client         | x      | x              | X      |
| **4**       | STA            | x     | x              | Client | x              | X      |
| **5**       | STA            | x     | GO             | x      | Client         | X      |
| **6**       | STA            | x     | Client         | x      | Client         | X      |
| **7**       | STA            | x     | GO             | x      | x              | Client |
| **8**       | STA            | x     | Client         | x      | x              | Client |
| **10**      | STA            | x     | x              | Client | x              | Client |
| **11**      | x              | STA   | GO             | x      | x              | x      |
| **12**      | x              | STA   | Client         | x      | x              | x      |
| **13**      | x              | STA   | x              | GO     | x              | x      |
| **14**      | x              | STA   | x              | Client | x              | x      |
| **15**      | x              | STA   | GO             | x      | Client         | x      |
| **16**      | x              | STA   | Client         | x      | Client         | x      |
| **17**      | x              | STA   | GO             | x      | x              | Client |
| **18**      | x              | STA   | Client         | x      | x              | Client |
| **19**      | x              | STA   | x              | GO     | x              | Client |
| **20**      | x              | STA   | x              | Client | x              | Client |
| **21**      | x              | x     | GO             | x      | Client         | x      |
| **22**      | x              | x     | Client         | x      | Client         | x      |
| **23**      | x              | x     | GO             | x      | x              | Client |
| **24**      | x              | x     | Client         | x      | x              | Client |
| **26**      | x              | x     | x              | Client | x              | Client |

 

#### Support Internet Sharing

**Description**

If implemented, support for Tethering over Virtualized Wi-Fi Port including support for Custom SSID and WPA2 Auth/Encryption for concurrent operation of tethering and station connectivity.  

Devices are recommended to support tethering for a minimum of 3 clients.

Device must report the relevant capabilities in the WIFI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES per the WDI Specification

-   WIFI\_VIRTUALIZATION\_ATTRIBUTES
-   WIFI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES
-   WIFI\_BAND\_INFO
-   WIFI\_PHY\_INFO

Support Advanced WMM Levels across WFD Role Ports

**Description**

This requirements captures the work needed to be done by the Wi-Fi Driver. This includes support for concurrent operation over Miracast, Station & Bluetooth.

**Details**

The Connection Quality & Performance of Wi-Fi Direct is essential to the Miracast Scenario. The assessment for the Device/Driver will provide the results for your device, below is guidance for a reasonable quality Miracast Connection.  

WMM shall be supported on all ports including virtualized ports – ExtSTA, Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (Group Owner), and Wi-Fi Direct Role Port (Client).

-   The NIC should be capable of supporting prioritization across two ports (ExtSTA & one Wi-Fi Direct Role Port) at the same time.

-   Prioritize traffic based on 802.11e Access Category (AC) tagging.

-   When the NIC is virtualized with Concurrency in single channel, it must be able to prioritize transmit traffic across different virtual ports based on WMM & Media Streaming indication.

-   When the NIC is virtualized with Concurrency across multiple channels, it must be able to prioritize transmit traffic across different virtual ports based on WMM and Media Streaming Indication and receiving traffic is serviced across the concurrent channels.

When WMM prioritization is used with AC\_VI or AC\_VO (Voice/Video), WLAN device should meet the following latency and packet loss requirements.

| ** **                                                  | **ExSTA**     | **Wi-Fi Direct Role Port ** | **Max. One Way Latency at UDP for AC\_VI/AC\_VO Traffic** | **Packet Loss for AC\_VI/AC\_VO Traffic** |
|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------------|
| **ExSTA Only**                                         | AC\_VI/AC\_VO | NA                          | 30ms                                                      | 0.5%, not more than 3 consecutive packets |
| ** **                                                  |               |                             |                                                           |                                           |
| **ExSTA + Wi-Fi Direct in Single Channel Concurrency** | AC\_VI/AC\_VO | &nbsp;                      | 30ms                                                      | 0.5%, not more than 3 consecutive packets |
| **&nbsp;**                                             | &nbsp;        | AC\_VI/AC\_VO               | 30ms                                                      | 0.5%, not more than 3 consecutive packets |
| **&nbsp;**                                             | AC\_VI/AC\_VO | AC\_VI/AC\_VO               | 30ms                                                      | 0.5%, not more than 3 consecutive packets |
| ** **                                                  |               |                             |                                                           |                                           |
| **ExSTA + Wi-Fi Direct in Multi Channel Concurrency**  | AC\_VI/AC\_VO | &nbsp;                      | 40ms                                                      | 0.5%, not more than 3 consecutive packets |
| **&nbsp;**                                             | &nbsp;        | AC\_VI/AC\_VO               | 40ms                                                      | 0.5%, not more than 3 consecutive packets |
| **&nbsp;**                                             | AC\_VI/AC\_VO | AC\_VI/AC\_VO               | 50ms                                                      | 0.5%, not more than 3 consecutive packets |

<a name="device.network.wlan.supportwifidirectservices"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWiFiDirectServices 

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWiFiDirect.WiFiDirectServices (If-Implemented)**(WDI drivers only)**

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>

**Description**

If implemented**,** support for Wi-Fi Direct by the Wi-Fi Driver to enable Wi-Fi Direct Services for both subscribing to and publishing Wi-Fi Direct Services. Windows SDK will provide APIs for using Wi-Fi Direct Services such that app developers can build peer to peer applications for example: Multiplayer Games, File Sharing or Sync with Device 

**Details**  

Device must report the following capabilities per the WDI Specification:

-   Action Frames Supported in WDI\_INTERFACE\_ATTRIBUTES

-   Service Discovery Supported in WDI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES

P2P Service Names Discovery Supported in WDI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTESMax P2P Service Name Advertisement Bytes Supported in WDI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTESOptional Support is recommended for the capabilities listed below:

-   Background Discovery Of P2P Devices And Services in WDI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES (Highly Recommended)

-   Passive Availability Listen State in WDI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES (Highly Recommended)

-   P2P Service Information Discovery Supported in WDI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES

-   Max P2P Service Information Advertisement Bytes Supported in WDI\_P2P\_ATTRIBUTES

If this requirement is supported, then the device must be capable of performing the following action as defined in the WDI Spec:

-   Support for Wi-Fi Direct

-   Support for Sending both Request and Response Action Frames

-   Support for Querying AQNP

-   Support for Indication of received Action Frames

<a name="device.network.wlan.supportwirelessdocking"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWirelessDocking

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportWirelessDocking (If-Implemented) **(WDI drivers only)**

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>
**Description: **

Wireless docking solution over 802.11ac or 802.11ad must use Wi-Fi Driver Interface (WDI) driver which provides dock and accessory discovery / connect via native peer to peer and Wi-Fi Direct Services protocol. Please refer to Wi-Fi Driver Interface (WDI) Specification 1.0.20 or later version for feature implementation details

If 802.11ad is being used, the following new PHY type must be reported:

**Implement 802.11ad (If-Implemented)**

Device must report 802.11ad PHY type 9 (WDI\_PHY\_TYPE\_DMG) in the WDI\_PHY\_INFO structures returned by OID\_WDI\_GET\_ADAPTER\_CAPABILITIES.

<a name="device.network.wlan.supporthostednetwork"></a>
## Device.Network.WLAN.SupportHostedNetwork

### Device.Network.WLAN.SupportHostedNetwork.HostedNetwork (If-Implemented) **(Native Wi-Fi drivers only)**

<table>
<tr>
<th>Applies to</th>
<td>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x64</p>
<p>Windows 10 for desktop editions (Home, Pro, Enterprise, and Education) x86</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile ARM</p>
<p>Windows 10 Mobile x86</p>
</td></tr></table>
**Description: **

With this feature, a Windows computer can use a single physical wireless adapter to connect as a client to a hardware access point (AP), while at the same time acting as a software AP allowing other wireless-capable devices to connect to it.

